---
title: 
date: 2024-08-27T09:11:39+03:00
description: 
category: 
tags: [] 
images: []
imageAlt: []
imageCap: [] 
draft: true
---
## Jordi Cortina-Segarra
### Chair of SER
- Public engagement, long-term monitoring
- Ecological restoration social, cultural economic and governance frameworks 
frameworks with limits  & with opportunities

the foundations are in place and the ultimate success is in your hands. A well connected community.

Natural Restoration Law hopefully act as a catalyst for what is needed

## Yoko Alender
### Estonian Minister of Climate

- ethical responsibility to ensure survival of species
- as we all know, passing a law is just the beinning (cf FGA)
- targetted, inclusive, science-based interventions
- cullture & nature entwined

## Prof Aveliina Helm
- menu system - developed by Estonian Fund for Nature & WWF
- #sere2024 #EcologicalRestoration 
- https://tartu2024ee/en
- 600-700 attendees 
## Dr Florian Claeys
### Scientific Policy Officer, European Commission - NRL team

- The EU Nature Resoration Law
- Bridging science, parctice and policy of nature restoration
- # Global biodiversity crisis
- IPBES global assessment 2019 
- Pollinator habitats have worse conservaation status & trends than other habitats
- Arguments for conservations
	- 35% loss EU carbon sinks
	- Critical risk of crop failures
	- 30% EU rivers exceeded high flood thresholds at least 1 day
	- 72% companies rely on at least 1 ecosystem 
- The European Green Deal - massive silo breaking 
- EU Biodiversity Strategy 20240 https://europa.eu
- A dashboard, everyone loves a good dashboard
- Science is behind the action. Full mobilisation, science vs. capital (and capital being entrenched economic interests, which serve the capital) 
- *Look at the drivers*

#### Nature Restoration Regulation
- Objectives
	- Long-term recovery biodiverse & resilient ecosystems
	- Climate change mitigation, adpatatoin
	-  Food security
	- 20% all EU land by 2030
- Specific targets
	- *Nothing about underlying economic framework, which is what is driving habitat loss in the first place. Universal Basic Services, recommoning & stewardship, local production. Delivery of housing & food. UBI, UBS, public provision of basic services.* 
	- AGricultural ecosystems targets (Article 11)
	- Agriculture - where economics & culture collides with nature
	- *Infrastructure you don't even think of*
	- Forest ecosystem targets (Article 12)
	- 3 billion trees (Art 13) - agroforestry, missed opportunity
- Planning 
	- Respect for Member States, flexibilites
	- Restoration as inclusive solution *need input at that level, participation in process*
	- **Strategic** visions, up to 2050
	- Talking about mitigation, need to look at production. #degrowth
	- ***Increase provision, reduce demand***
- Finance
	- Multiplier 8x
	- *Funds? Lots in the EU but not so much in the UK is my guess*

eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1991/oj